Go ahead and open up your Bibles to the book of 1st Corinthians. We're going to be looking at the first 17 verses together today. But before we get into the Word of God this morning, a number of you this past week reached out to me, had a lot of conversations. It's been a tough week. It's been a tough season for our country.

When we just think of some of the evil that we've encountered: school shootings, a state senator being murdered in her own home, a Ukrainian refugee trying to escape the horrors of war only to succumb to violence here in the United States. And then of course, the murder of Charlie Kirk, 31 years old, talented young man, a follower of Jesus. And it's really easy for us to become overwhelmed by this kind of evil.

But you know what? When we take a step back and we think about it, what we need to recognize is this is the result. This is the result of departing from the Lord, of trying to live our own way, to be our own gods, to establish our own kingdoms apart from God.

But you know, the most evil thing ever perpetrated in the history of the world was that the powers of evil tried to put to death the very Son of God. And what did God do with that? He subverted that evil. And he used that attempt that Jesus Christ defeated sin, Satan, evil, and death through the cross, through his crucifixion, that through the power of his resurrection, we can have eternal life.

Because that's what God does. He takes evil and he takes brokenness and he subverts it and he makes it into something new. He makes it into something beautiful. And he uses it to bring healing and wholeness. And that's what I pray is the case, what is going to happen in our country, that it would wake us up from the apathy that so many of us may be guilty of. That would wake us up from turning our back on God and trying to live our own way.

And so I just want to invite you just to be praying, to be praying bold prayers against this kind of evil. Not just in our nation but in our own community, in our own church. This has been a very, very heavy season. But I think God's using it. I think God is using it to wake us up and to bring us together and to do something very, very special and powerful in our midst. Amen. You with me? All right.

Hey, we're in 1st Corinthians chapter 1. We're going to be, as I said, we're going to be looking at the first 17 verses of that together. We're beginning a new study and series in 1st Corinthians today. And this is a letter that the Apostle Paul writes to the church that he both planted and pastored. He pastored this church for a year and a half in the city of Corinth.

And 1st Corinthians is a letter, it's a response to a troubling report Paul receives about how the church had allowed the fallen values of the culture around them to shape them instead of the other way around. And in 1st Corinthians, we read of how this church had become an absolute mess. It just turned into a mess that it just succumbed to rampant division, there's self-centeredness all over the place. There was chaos in their worship services and there was some pretty sadistic sin that had just spread throughout their community of faith.

And the reason why I picked 1st Corinthians to study together this fall, and it's going to take us way into the spring as well, but I picked 1st Corinthians, I prayed about it and the Lord laid 1st Corinthians on my heart to study together because I believe that if we're going to be the church that God has created us to be, this city on a hill that is a light shining in the darkness of our culture and our communities, a place where we witness the renewal, redemption, restoration and supernatural power of the Holy Spirit that changes lives. Then we need to be the church that God has called us to be in being a set apart, selfless, and faithful people who love God, his Word, and one another.

And so when we think about 1st Corinthians, and we think about 1st century Corinth, if we were to pull a Marty McFly and jump into our DeLorean time machine and go back roughly 2,000 years to the city of Corinth, what we'd find is actually a city that's a lot like a city we're very familiar with, present day New York City, culturally speaking.

Corinth was a very affluent destination city. It was diverse. It was a major center of trade. There was this fast paced way of living in Corinth. And it was widely looked at as a place of opportunity. That people from all over the world would flock to Corinth to chase success and prominence and celebrity. That if Frank Sinatra was around in the 1st century, he probably would have sang about Corinth as the place that, you know, if you make it there, you can make it anywhere.

And Corinth also, like New York, was a place where getting ahead was all about who you know. Right? In New York, New Jersey, everybody's got a guy, right? It's all about who you know. And that's the way it was in Corinth. Smoozing and quid pro quo and backbiting and trying to rub shoulders with powerful elites was all a part of playing the game and trying to make it and make a name for yourself in Corinth.

Bible commentator Steven Rune writes, "The ideal of the Corinthian was the reckless development of the individual. A true Corinthian is one who recognizes no superior and no law but their own desires. To be Corinthian was, if it feels good or works best for me, do it."

And so in both 1st century Corinth and present day New York City, there's this way of life that most people buy into that we always have to be achieving. Right? We always need to be striving. We need more. We need to be in the right circles with the right people if we want to live happy, fulfilling and satisfied lives.

But for all of us living here in the New York metropolitan area and the suburbs of New York City, right here in Monmouth County, New Jersey, we can feel it, can't we? We can feel there's this strong current of our fallen culture that's trying to hijack our faith, to rob us of our sanity and burn out our families. It seems like every single person I talk to, "Hey, how you doing?" "Just tired. Tired." There's this malaise, this exhaustion we're all feeling.

And you know, the reality is that the church in the United States today shares a lot of the same parallels that we see in 1st century Corinth, the 1st century church in Corinth. Where we see widespread apathy and individualism and consumerism and patronage and tribalism and a casual attitude towards sin. And so this is what makes the letter of 1st Corinthians so incredibly relevant to us today.

That Paul writes the letter of 1st Corinthians to address how we are called to live and be the church in the midst of a fallen demanding culture that's filled with gross immorality and corruption and spiritual darkness. In 1st Corinthians, Paul directs us how to live as a united set apart community that's being shaped by the cross of Christ instead of the fallen values of this world. And he reminds us as the people of God, we are called and compelled to collectively pursue the love, the humility and the faithfulness of Jesus Christ together in a culture that's designed to exhaust us and pull us apart.

And so today we're going to begin our study by looking at the first 17 verses of chapter 1 in 1st Corinthians, where the Apostle Paul, he speaks to the Corinthian church and us as well in a way about the danger of finding our identity in the fallen values of our culture. And how it leads to division and exhaustion and destruction in our lives and in the life of the church.

And so Paul here reminds us that as followers of Jesus, our identity is in Christ alone, which leads to us enjoying life-giving unity, peace, and growth in our lives, families and community of faith. And so before we dive into our passage together, let's first ask the Lord to prepare our hearts and minds to receive his word.

Let's pray. Heavenly Father, it is always the greatest privilege to gather together in your name and to recognize that the one true God of the universe is speaking directly to us through his Word. And we want to acknowledge that we can't do anything apart from you. That when we try to live lives apart from you, it just makes a mess. It just causes brokenness and division and pain and death. So Lord, we recognize that we see that in our culture right here and right now. And so Lord, help us to be the people you have called us to be. Help us to be that city on a hill, that light shining in the darkness. Lord, remind us who we are in you. Lord, compel us by your love. And that you would by the power of your Spirit write on our hearts and remind us that you are far better than anything this world has to offer. And so come and meet with us right here right now through your Word. We pray this in Jesus's name. Amen.

So, who here is a fan of The Lord of the Rings trilogy? Do I have any Lord of the Rings nerds with me here this morning? Okay, I'm a big fan of The Lord of the Rings. I'm not like crazy or anything like that. I don't have like an Elvish tattoo or anything that bizarre. I just kind of like the movies. But one of my favorite characters in The Lord of the Rings is Aragorn. And he's the rightful heir to the throne of Gondor. And part of the story is how he resists and he runs away from his true identity where instead of being king, he chooses to live in sort of this semi-seclusion as a ranger in the wilderness.

And the people closest to him, they could just see his potential. They can see who he truly is meant to be but he refuses to step into the calling that has clearly been placed upon his life. And this is a big part of the story. However, there's this great turning point in the final film of the trilogy, The Return of the King, where through these crazy extenuating circumstances, Aragorn finally realizes the calling upon his life. And he chooses to both accept and embrace his identity. And he leads the armies of Middle Earth to victory, not just as a ranger or a warrior, but as king.

You know, it's very easy for us to forget or lose our identity. It's very easy for us to become deceived into believing that we are someone or something we're not. It's very easy for us to be deceived to look to something else and think that something else other than God can be our peace, our fulfillment, our salvation.

No, part of being a follower of Jesus Christ is receiving a new identity as a son or daughter of the high King of Heaven. And that when we put our faith in Jesus Christ, as Christians, we've been called to this great privilege of being ambassadors for Christ, that as we go about living our lives, we intentionally look for opportunities of how we can use our influence to shape our communities with the love of Jesus. It's part of being who a Christian is.

However, just like Aragorn, we can become deceived into living beneath our calling. Do you know what I mean by that? We can become deceived into living beneath our calling. And this is what had happened to the Corinthian Christians. Where what we come to see is that they had become deceived by allowing the voices of their culture to convince them that their value was not found in their position in Christ, but in their status and who they rubbed shoulders with.

And so Paul opens his letter to the Corinthians where we read in verses 1 through 3 it says, Paul writes, "Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus and our brother Sosthenes, to the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ."

So in verses 1 through 3, Paul opens his letter by first identifying himself. He identifies himself as an apostle of Christ Jesus. And he's not boasting of his own status or accomplishments, but from jump, he's letting everybody know that everything he is, it's all because of the calling God has placed upon his life. His status, his identity in Christ. And Paul also tells us that Sosthenes, who's the former synagogue leader who came to faith in back in Acts chapter 18, which when Paul first arrived in Corinth, that he's serving with him as his assistant. And then he greets the Corinthian Christians with this blessing of grace and peace in verse 3.

But the place where I like for us to dedicate the majority of our attention here is in verse 2, where Paul writes to "the church of God that's in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus and to those called to be saints together, with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours." See, what Paul's doing here, what we need to see here is that what Paul's doing here is he's calling the Corinthian Christians to both remember and to return to their identity in Christ. To remember and return to their identity in Christ, which is being sanctified in Christ Jesus and called to be saints together.

Well, what does that mean? What does it mean to be sanctified in Christ Jesus and called to be a saint? Well, to be sanctified in Christ and a saint essentially means the same thing. The word sanctified and the term saint means to have been set apart. To be set apart or to be made holy for God. Now, in the Bible, a saint is not referring to a super spiritual Christian, you know, you're like this Navy Seal Christian and then you get labeled as a saint and so you get to make like the Christian Hall of Fame, right? That's what if you grew up Roman Catholic like me, that's what we think a saint is. That's not what the Bible says a saint is.

But the Bible says that every believer is a saint. Not because of what you've done, we've done, or anyone has done, but all because of what Jesus has done on our behalf. And so what we must understand is that to be sanctified in Christ Jesus and to be a saint is both a gift, a calling, and a position in Christ. And what I mean by that is that when we trust and surrender our lives to Jesus, the Lord gives us with a new status, position, and identity in him.

That we go from being dead in our sin, enemies of God, and being used by the evil powers of this world to advance its agenda, to now being made alive in Christ, being made united with Christ, and being adopted as sons and daughters into the family of God now on mission to advance the kingdom of God. That we read in Ephesians 2:4-6, it says, "But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you've been saved, and raised us up with him, and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ." Do you hear that? You have been seated in the heavenly places in Christ. That is our position in Jesus Christ when we put our faith in him.

And so the reason why understanding our position in Christ is so significant for both us and the Corinthian Christians is because when you're constantly just being bombarded with the message that you have to earn it, you have to earn your approval, you have to earn your significance. Right? You need to earn your position through endless striving, whether it's by how big your bank account is, what important people you know, right? Your job title, right? Your reputation, your celebrity status, whatever the case may be, right? This world tells us, "It's not good enough, you need more, you need more, you need more."

Knowing and understanding that our status and worth in God's eyes isn't dependent upon our performance, our own performance, but on the love of Jesus and his finished work on the cross is the ultimate reassurance of our identity. What does this practically look like in our everyday lives? Well, if you have a good relationship with your parents, right? Or if you are a parent yourself, you will know that no matter what your kids do, right? To you or you yourself have done to your parents, what a knucklehead you've acted like, like me. There's nothing they may get frustrated with you or you may get frustrated with your kids, feel disappointment, right? There's all that, that's all real. But guess what? There is nothing that you could ever do. Right? There's nothing our kids could ever do to stop us from loving them. They can't make us love them any less. There's nothing they can do to change their status with us. They don't have to earn being our child. They are our child. We just love them just because.

Well, guess what? That's how God the Father looks at you. He just loves you. You're his. There's nothing you have to do to earn it or approve that, right? And so what God the Father in his glorious gospel is saying to us here is, "Hey, stop striving. Stop striving to build an identity. I have given you one free of charge and infinitely better than the world can offer you. I've given it to you in my Son, Jesus Christ. That you no longer have to perform in order to build an identity, but simply just receive it. Receive it as the gift that I've offered to you and live it out. Live out the identity that has been won at the cross and offered to you in Christ." In other words, be who you've been created to be in Jesus.

So Paul is trying to tell us here that we don't have to keep trying to find our identity in people, achievements or accomplishments. We don't have to endlessly strive to prove our value to ourselves and others. God the Father sees you as being so valuable that he sent his one and only Son Jesus to die in your place. That that's the good news of the gospel, that if you've trusted in Christ, God has set you apart in him. And that's where your true identity lies. So receive his invitation to live as the person you've been created to be and already are in Christ.

And so now as we come to verses 4 through 9, Paul continues to encourage the Corinthian Christians by letting them know that not only has God blessed them with this new identity in Christ and has set them apart as his sanctified saints, but he's also blessed us with the ability and the aptitude, the giftings in the Holy Spirit to carry out this sacred calling.

So let's go ahead and read verses 4 through 9 together. It says, Paul writes, "I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus. That in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge. Even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you. So that you are not lacking in any gift as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord."

You know, there are few things more frustrating and defeating than being asked to do something that you don't have the ability to do. Do you know what I mean by that? Like, for example, this is pretty much me every single time something in my house breaks and needs to be fixed. Like, it doesn't matter what happens, I'll watch a YouTube video, I'll go to the store, I'll go to Lowe's, I'll get the right tools, I'll get the supplies to do the job. I'm like, "This time, it's going to be different. I got this." But at the end of the day, it's not. I just don't have the ability. I am 110% mechanically challenged. It's just the truth. I just don't have it. The final result is always me getting mad. Frustrated, making things worse, costing me more money. That I got to call somebody like my dad, like Wayne Pagliarulo, John Garofalo now, Jason Paul, I need a team. That's how bad I am. I'm just like, "Please help fix this."

But here's my point. How awful would it be if God put this incredible calling on our lives to be his sanctified saints on mission, right? To be his ambassadors and being good news people in a bad news world. But then he didn't give us the ability to carry out that calling. And he just gives you that calling and he's just like, "Good luck, figure it out."

Well, in verses 4 through 9, the Apostle Paul tells the Corinthian Christians that not only have they been given a new identity and calling in Christ, but the Lord has also given them the ability and the aptitude to live out that calling by blessing them with three specific gifts, right? In the spirit. And those three gifts are the grace of God, the speech and knowledge of God, and the blessed assurance of God.

So let's look at these three things. First, in verse 4, Paul tells them, "I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus." Some use the following acronym to define grace. You see up there on the screen, "God's riches at Christ's expense." That when Jesus died and atoned for our sins and defeated Satan, sin and death through the power of his resurrection, we did nothing to merit sharing in his victory or receiving salvation in him. It was none of us and it was 100% Jesus. Yet he offers it to us free of charge as a gift to be received by faith because of his infinite love for us. And this is the grace of God gift to us in Christ Jesus, his amazing grace. Right? We see this in the scriptures. Ephesians 2:8-10 says, "For by grace you've been saved through faith. This is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works so that no one may boast."

But it doesn't stop there, right? We receive this grace, but we receive it for a purpose. And verse 10 tells us what that purpose is, and it's for "we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for what? For good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them." So we've received this grace. We've received the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives and we have these giftings that God before the beginning of time has written our name on these good works for us to do. We he's given us a purpose to live out, right? For him.

So next, verses 5 through 6, Paul writes, "That in every way you were enriched in him, in Jesus, in all speech and all knowledge. Even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you." So, when we trust in Christ for salvation, his Holy Spirit, it takes residence in us. It makes his home inside of us. And then he gives us the ability to be enriched by the knowledge of his Word, the Bible. Where supernaturally, we're now able to intellectually grasp its content and apply it to our lives.

Now, that doesn't mean that all of a sudden we all become like crazy Bible scholars. And and we, you know, we understand everything, you know, cover to cover in the Bible. I'm not saying that at all. But what I am saying is supernaturally, we're able to understand, right? The main message, the essential tenets of Christianity, of orthodoxy. We're able to grow in our faith. We're able to apply the Bible to our lives and we can experience its life-giving power. And so in verse 6, Paul tells them that he can personally testify to this being the case. Because when he was with them, he witnessed it firsthand.

Finally, in verses 7 through 9, Paul writes, "So that you're not lacking in any gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord." So lastly, Paul closes the section by encouraging the Corinthian Christians that even though they've currently strayed off course in their faith. They haven't lost the spiritual gifts that God has blessed them with to build up their church and to reach their city with the love of Jesus. More than that, despite their unfaithfulness, Jesus has promised to be faithful and sustain them to the end. So they can look forward to his return with great anticipation, right? That our love and Jesus, it's not conditional. So Paul uses the love of God here to compel the Corinthian Christians to get back on track in their faith.

And so this is the good news that is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Where religion says, "I messed up. My dad is going to kill me." I'm sure that's what my kids say. But the gospel says, "I messed up. I need to call my dad to rescue me." That's the difference. That's what Paul's doing here in appealing to them with the love of Jesus and the grace of God.

So this brings us to the next section of our passage in verses 10 through 11. Where after Paul spent time building up and encouraging the Corinthian church to remember who they are in Christ, remember their mission, their calling in Christ. Now comes the hard part. Now he's got to talk to them about the hard things that are going on in their church. And so he's going to begin to address the selfish infighting and division that the Corinthians had allowed to fester and become widespread throughout the church.

So let's read verses 10 through 11 together. It says, "I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree, and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment. For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers."

So, beginning in verse 10, Paul begins to address the division and discord that had become rampant in the church at Corinth. By speaking to them as a spiritual big brother, exhorting them in the name of the Lord Jesus to just end this disunity among them. Right? He could have big timed them and be like, "Hey, I'm an apostle, knock this off, end it." He doesn't do that. He's speaking the truth in love. He's coming alongside them as a spiritual big brother.

And so apparently, what we come to learn here is that the Corinthians had actually previously written Paul a letter sharing with him some of the issues that have been going on in the church. But they hadn't given him the full picture. Right? They withheld a couple of things. And so there's this prominent businesswoman and member of the church at Ephesus, which is where Paul is presently located and writing this letter from, named Chloe, that she had traveled to Corinth for business, and she had told her people, "Hey, pass along to Paul, what's really going on at the church at Corinth." And so he gets the full picture.

So in addressing this division, Paul first directs the Corinthians that they should all make every attempt to agree, to agree. Now, Paul isn't implying that they should all become wishy-washy passive yes men. But what he's saying here is that they need to put to death the disagreeable spirit that had become widespread in their church.

Now, we can all identify with what Paul's talking about here because we all know someone, or we have that person in our family that loves to be, you know, loves to stir the pot, and, you know, they love to, you know, just, you know, disagree for the sake of disagreeing, and then, you know, at your holiday, everything goes crazy. You know, I know you're picturing them in your head right now. There's no way it's you, right? It's no way it's me. But we know someone, right?

So the point Paul's making here is that instead of having an attitude and posture that's seeking to debate and disagree, we need to make just make every effort to find common ground with one another. Right? We are going to disagree. Right? We're going to have different takes on things. But we can always find common ground with one another. And this means refraining from talking past one another or at each other, trying to win arguments by any means necessary in order to get your own way. But instead, we're to have a posture that seeks after harmony and agreement. And as the people of God, we are called to build one another up and encourage each other, not exasperate and exhaust ourselves.

And so next, Paul tells them, "Let there be no division among you." Now, this is paramount for the church. Because Jesus prayed in his high priestly prayer in John 17. This is John 17:21. This is right before he goes to the cross, he's praying to the Father. He prays, this is him praying to the Father, "May the church all be one just as you, Father, are in me and I in you that they, talking about the church, the future church, also may be in us. So that the world may believe that you have sent me."

So what Jesus is saying here is that the way the world will come to know him is by how we as the church love one another, and how we model the transcendent unity that's present in the Triune God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. But if the church is divided, it compromises its gospel witness to the surrounding world. And guess what happens? It loses its we lose our power and our effectiveness.

You see, unity in the church is one of the most predominant themes in the entire New Testament. Because without it, the entire mission and advancement of the kingdom of God is paralyzed. See, the point being made here is that if Christians can't get along and enjoy unity with each other, then we don't have the love of God in us and we make God out to be a liar. That's how vital this is.

And so lastly, Paul tells the Corinthians to be united in the same mind and the same judgment. Now, this is not a call for uniformity, but rather it's a call to unity over the basics and foundations of our faith. As the people of God, there are going to be times we differ in our opinions, our perspectives, our takes on things. But we need to guard against getting caught up and divided upon these peripheral or frivolous matters such as music styles or buildings or how people dress, church names, politics, secondary theological issues. As the church, we stand united, but divided, we fall. So we must keep the main thing the main thing, which is the central tenets of Christian orthodoxy and the gospel of Jesus Christ.

Commentator Daniel Aiken writes, "The church is at its best when it is on the battlefield fighting the real enemies of Satan, sin, death, hell, and the grave. She is at her worst when she is in the barracks fighting her own members. Jesus said, 'Love God, love one another, and go to the nations with the gospel.' The Corinthians were doing none of this because they had stopped thinking and acting like Jesus."

And so this brings us to the conclusion of our passage, the final section, which is in verses 12 through 17. You guys still with me? I know it's a long passage. I had to like double up in some places if we're going to do 1st Corinthians 15, the resurrection over Easter. This is one of those places. Right? So you're getting a double dose this morning. But you're with me, right? You're not going to make me cry myself to sleep tonight. Good.

Here we go. Verses 12 through 17. What we see here is Paul is confronting the problem of patronage. I know most of you are like, "What in the world is that?" I'm going to explain what that is. But this patronage had taken root in the Corinthian church that led to much of the division they were experiencing.

So let's go ahead and read verses 12 through 17 together. Paul writes, "What I mean is that each one of you says, 'I follow Paul.' 'I follow Apollos.' Or 'I follow Cephas.' Or 'I follow Christ.' Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you being baptized into the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius. So that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. I did baptize also the household of Stephanas. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel and not with words of eloquent wisdom lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power."

So, despite all Paul's teaching on the gospel and identity in Christ, the Corinthians were trying to find their identity through what was known as patronage. Let me explain to you what patronage is. So patronage was the social system in the ancient Greco-Roman world, where wealthy influential patrons would provide resources, protection, and opportunities in exchange for loyalty and honor and public recognition from their clients. So this shaped a significant part of the culture in Corinth, as your status and your identity were tied to whoever's patronage you belonged under.

So what had happened is, there are these different groups of people in the church at Corinth that were trying to take this practice and now apply it and impress it upon the church. And trying to seek out church leaders as their patron. So there's this one group that claims Paul is their patron. They're the church's founder, former pastor, the Apostle, the person writing this letter. Then there was Apollos, who was a very gifted and eloquent preacher, who was a co-laborer with Paul that we first meet in Acts 18. Then there's this third group pledged to Cephas, which is the Aramaic name for Peter, the Apostle Peter. Right? The member of Jesus's inner circle. Then finally, and thankfully, there's a group who refrained from elevating a human leader over their Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. This fourth group stayed loyal to Christ.

So, what made this so truly bizarre is that Paul, Apollos, and Peter were all friends. They were all co-laborers in Christ. They all preached the same gospel, and they were all appalled by this. They were absolutely appalled by this. That tragically, the Corinthians elevated their church leaders into personalities to follow instead of seeing them as servant shepherd leaders. And the results were that it had fractured their church in the process.

And so Paul cuts to the heart of their division in verse 13 by asking them, "Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?" And what Paul's doing here, he's reminding the Corinthians that no leader, regardless of how gifted they are, could ever replace the centrality of Jesus, his cross and his glorious gospel.

And so sarcastically, in verses 14 through 16, Paul gives thanks that he only baptized a couple of people when he was pastor in Corinth. Because he fears with this line of thinking that they had, that they could have made the mistake of thinking that they were being baptized in Paul's name instead of the name of Christ.

And you know, in the church today, we kind of have our own contemporary version of patronage. Don't we? There's this really strange practice we have where we too place certain pastors and church leaders on pedestals, revealing how some of us have allowed the culture to shape our hearts and valuing charisma and branding and popularity over faithfulness, humility, and servanthood. What I'm talking about is the toxic phenomena and oxymoron that is the celebrity pastor.

Now the truth is, there should be nothing celebrity about a pastor. It's actually hilarious when I think about it. But because celebrity and the and the reason why this is, is celebrity shifts, right? A person's focus onto themselves instead of where it should belong, which is solely on Jesus. And time and again, time and again, we've witnessed how, you know, certain pastors, they seek out celebrity in order to gain a cult following, and let's face it, it's pretty cultish. Where tragically, people begin to follow and pledge their allegiance to them instead of Jesus Christ. And time and time again, what do we see? These pastors have these, you know, these moral failings and people become disillusioned in their faith because they're following a person instead of Jesus.

Now, to be fair, many times this has little to do with the pastor, which was the case in Corinth. Paul, Apollos and Peter, they wanted no part of this. And it has everything to do with people's misplaced desires. And there's also, I need to say, a difference between a pastor's become well known for their faithfulness to Jesus and the gospel, and a celebrity pastor who's actively trying to build a brand for themselves, right? For the purpose of selfish personal gain. And so the sign of a true servant hearted pastor shepherd is that they resist celebrity by pointing people away from themselves and towards Jesus. And true gospel centered churches always choose the substance, right? A biblical truth and character over style.

Right? There's I'm going to get myself in trouble here. I'm not going to name names. But there is a certain pastor, right? Who's who's not a bad guy at all in our area and he has a relationship with this celebrity, this this national politician. And it seems like every single time he has an opportunity to remind people that he has a relationship. It's it's silly with this politician, he has to plaster it all over his social media and their website and whatever. And it's like, "Hey, follow Jesus because I'm friends with this politician." It's just silly. It's just so silly. And he's not a bad guy, but it's so easy for us to to just get so deceived by this, the lure of celebrity and building our own brand.

Right? So what Paul is making clear here is that he didn't come to Corinth to build a brand or a following. But he came to build a church. He came to preach the gospel. He came to point people to Jesus Christ. It's not about him, it's all about Jesus. And it should always be all about Jesus. Where we read in verse 17, "For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power." People weren't coming to Jesus because Paul was such a great speaker. They were coming to Jesus because the power of the message of the gospel.

And so one of the vital truths we see in 1st Corinthians that we cannot miss is that the church was never meant to be built upon the platform of performance or personalities, but on the foundation of Jesus Christ crucified alone.

Bible commentator Steven Rumer writes, "Seeking validation in someone or something outside of us is a very common phenomenon. We are all looking to belong to part of someone or something bigger than ourselves. However, when we attach ourselves to things that cannot hold the weight of being our salvation, they ultimately crumble. And so do we with them. This is the reason we latch onto celebrities and causes. They become our surrogate savior. We become fierce evangelists for political candidates, parties, influencers, diets, methods of parenting, and education, et cetera. These things give us a sense of identity and purpose in so far as they make us feel different, superior, or distinct from other people. Yet sadly, our patron based identities build walls that destroy the peace that we are longing for."

You see, true peace cannot be built on foundations that shift with culture, preference, or performance. The peace we long for, peace with ourselves, with others, and with God can only be found in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Because in Christ, we're given an identity that's not earned, but is graciously received. The gospel tells us that we are fully known and fully loved by the one true God of the universe. Not because of our alignment with any cause, but because of Christ's finished work on the cross. And this removes the need to prove ourselves and it frees us from comparison and division. Because only in Jesus Christ can the walls of division and strife and tribalism come down because he himself is our peace. Reconciling us to God and to one another in a way that no earthly system or ideology can ever can.

And so if you're tired of striving and trying to build your life on the unstable ground that is people and performance, make the decision today to place your trust in Jesus Christ. Receive the identity he freely offers to you, one that is secure, unshakeable, and rooted in his steadfast love. Turn to Jesus and trust in him today to find the peace that your soul was made for and is longing to receive by surrendering to him, by grace through faith and him alone.

This time I want to ask the worship team to come up as well as the prayer team. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we thank you for the power of your Word, the power of your Spirit, the power of truth to direct us back to you. Lord, we are so prone to wander in our hearts and to chase after these the things of this world. And for and in seeking significance in the things of this world and trying to define ourselves in in people and our achievements and performance. Father, I pray that you would free us of that, Lord. That we would turn our hearts away from from from looking for salvation in the things and the values of our culture in this world and look to you and you alone for freedom and for peace and for rest. And I pray if there's anybody here this morning, Lord that that hasn't yet trusted in you, that that is seeking freedom, that is seeking peace, that is seeking rest, Lord. That they would cry out to you right here and right now. Right as as we sing this last song, Lord, that they would just cry out to you and be praying to you and and come forward for prayer. And that we would just be able to to walk together in in in just this this struggle, Lord. This struggle in in in trying to to ward off the temptation and the pull of this world and to fully surrender to you. Lord, I thank you for the gift of your Word, the gift of your Son, the gift of your Holy Spirit. We pray this now in Jesus's name. Amen.